the film opens in 1845 through the point
of view of a young woman
she is being hung from a tree and is
having a mask nailed to her face
before the townspeople light her on fire
and speak an incantation
while holding a doll to the woman's face
her charred corpse is left hanging from
the tree for hours
then the scene changes to the present
day in the town of banfield
massachusetts disgraced journalist jerry
fenn gets a tip of something happening
nearby
he goes to investigate because a farmer
thinks that
his cow has been marked by a cult but
jerry figures out that
it was just the man's son painting the
metallica m
jerry then hears something that beckons
him to a nearby tree
where he finds a burnt doll like the one
seen before and with the date of
february 31
1845 engraved on it jerry then steps on
the doll's head and breaks it
on his way out of town that night jerry
drives out of town and swerves off the
road when he sees a young woman
alice paget in the middle of the road
she approaches the same tree that jerry
went to earlier and mutter something
before passing out
jerry takes her to the home of father
hagin who is alice's uncle
he calls dr natalie gates and it is
revealed that alice is deaf
which means it would have been
impossible for jerry to hear her talk
natalie accuses jerry of trying to harm
alice
jerry sticks around banfield to
potentially get a story for his
employers with a religious angle to it
he goes to church where hagin preaches
and during the sermon alice stands up
after staring at a statue of the virgin
mary and starts walking out
the people follow her and watch as she
goes to the tree
after standing there for a moment alice
speaks again
surprising everyone she claims she is
hearing the voice of mary herself
who is requesting through alice that
everyone returned to the tree the next
day
while natalie runs tests on alice jerry
reports to his former employer
monica slade she reminds jerry that he
was fired for faking a story
and she doesn't want to hear what he has
to say while jerry was sleeping
he has a dream of a ghostly woman rising
from a nearby creek and crawling out
the next day the townspeople return to
the tree to see if another miracle can
be performed
a young paraplegic boy toby walsh is
brought forward
alice speaks to mary and tells toby to
walk
to the astonishment of everyone the boy
is able to do so
jerry records the event everyone begins
to pray to mary
inside the church the statue of the
virgin mary appears to cry blood
jerry meets bishop giles who is working
with monsignor delgaard
sent by the vatican to investigate
whether or not alice really perform a
divine miracle
alice herself becomes a media sensation
and the tree is set to become a shrine
pagan goes to the tree and sees the doll
on the ground
all while a ghostly apparition appears
to stock him
jerry sets up an interview with alice
where she says that mary told her that
jerry misses the power he used to have
with his words
and that she saw someone in need of her
help
hagan comes to talk to jerry in private
and he starts coughing heavily due to
his emphysema
he comes to tell jerry not to take
advantage of alice and exploit
her for personal gains jerry sits in at
the church with delgaard
while alice practices singing with hegan
he starts to have a violent coughing
episode where he collapses
as jerry calls for an ambulance alice
places her
hand on hegan's chest and he suddenly
finds himself breathing normally again
natalie later does an x-ray for hagen
and compares it to one from a while back
where his condition looked far more
severe
now believing that alice truly healed
hagan's condition
the tree is officially declared a shrine
and banfield
starts to gain more tourism jerry later
talks to natalie about the doll
where she tells him that those
particular dolls are meant to be good
luck but are also known for trapping
evil things
putting the impossible date like
february 31st to keep them inside
forever
they then walk by the same creek he saw
in his dream and he once again sees the
apparition
when he tells natalie he wants to see
hagen we cut to hagen in the church
after smoking a cigarette he goes to the
confessional area
where he hears the apparent voice of
mary condemning him because she healed
him and he repaid her with doubt over
the miracle
hagan steps out and is confronted by
mary's ghost
who attacks him when jerry goes to the
church
he finds hagen hung by the neck in an
apparent suicide
after the medics take his body out jerry
speaks to giles
who asks him to keep quiet on the notion
that a man of the cloth took his own
life
jerry interviews alice again and after
reviewing the footage later that night
he slows down the footage to reveal
something hidden mary's ghost
briefly flashing during hagen's funeral
jerry and natalie look in the church's
basement where they find documents in
latin about demons and witches
they find a written piece on mary
ellenore who was a healer in her time
but anybody who doubted her would meet a
grim fate
the townspeople turned on mary who
confessed to working for satan
she had the mask of the virgin mary
nailed to her face and was burnt to
death
while trapping her spirit in the doll
that jerry broke
alice stands up during the service and
tells the people that mary wants them to
gather at the shrine for a special
service
jerry and natalie are then found and
attacked by mary's ghost
but they escape the church and head off
to warn alice
jerry and natalie go to the archdiocese
of boston to giles and delgaard
to show them hagan's findings on mary
but while giles knew about this
delgaard notes he was never told about
it and giles doesn't want anything to
stop the service
jerry later does more research on mary
and learns that before she died
she had a child that was adopted by a
man named nicholas paget
which means alice as mary's descendant
and mary made a deal with the devil to
live on through her children and their
children and so on jerry is attacked by
mary's ghost again
but delgaard wards her off now convinced
of what jerry was talking about
as giles gets the shrine service in
order delgaard joins jerry and natalie
in going to the church to bless the doll
and attempt to return mary's spirit into
the doll
when delgaard lights it on fire the
flame spread up to the large cross on
the wall
which falls off and impales delgarde
setting him on fire as well
jerry and natalie run out and head over
to the service
the service is well underway with mary
set to take in all the townspeople's
faith to become more powerful
jerry and natalie get there and realize
that the only way to stop
mary is to get everyone in attendance to
doubt her power
jerry tells the crowd that he faked the
whole thing and that alice is not really
a healer
he makes up some facts about what
happened with her being able to hear and
toby walking
but claims those are just medical
effects with natalie
joining in the crowd starts to boo and
renounce their faith
mary is pissed and begins to set the
tree on fire
the people run out just as her ghost
emerges and tries to attack
toby loses control of his legs again and
natalie carries him out to safety
giles attempts to subdue the spirit but
mary presses her hand against his chest
and disintegrates him
when she goes after jerry alice stands
in the way and takes the hit
with mary having killed her last
descendant her spirit can no longer live
on
and she screams as she fades into
oblivion
jerry holds alice's body and tearfully
prays to god for her survival
she then wakes up and jerry hugs her
jerry and natalie go with alice to
hagan's grave to honor him
although alice is once again deaf jerry
finds a way to communicate with her
he tells natalie that he is stunned that
alice survived since
she had no pulse and wasn't breathing
when he held her but natalie thinks
maybe god really did work a miracle
after they leave we see a verse from
matthew chapter 7 verse 15
beware of false prophets which come to
you in sheep's clothing but inwardly
they are ravening wolves
the last thing we see is the statue of
the virgin mary crying blood again and
with this
the movie ends here
oh